Update examples how to use VersionedLayerClient and VolatileLayerClient (#55)
heremaps/here-olp-sdk-typescript: docs/examples/nodejs-read-versioned-layer.md

# Example how to read the layer data on Node.js using @here/olp-sdk-dataservice-read and @here/olp-sdk-authentication

This example shows how to retrieve partition metadata and partition data using the OLP SDK for TypeScript.

## Build and running on Node.js

Requirements:

> See [README.md](../../README.md#Dependencies) for dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on dependencies, see [README.md](../../README.md#Dependencies).
```

> Create a simple Node.js app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the Node.js app:
```

```shell
mkdir example-app && cd example-app && npm init
```

Then initialize a TypeScript project:

```shell
tsc --init
```

> Also, install node types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install node types:
```

```shell
npm install --save-dev @types/node
```

> Then install SDK modules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install SDK modules:
```

const app = new App();
app.run();
```

Compile and run the app:

```shell
tsc && node .
```

After a successful run, the console displays the following message:

```shell
App works!
```

> ## Log into the data store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Log in to the datastore
```

> The first thing you need is [account](https://account.here.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To work with the datastore, you need to have an [account](https://account.here.com).
```

> Log into your account and create a test app to get app access key id and secret access key at [platform.here.com](https://platform.here.com/admin/apps)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get your app access key id and access key secret, log in to the [HERE Open Location Platform (OLP)](https://platform.here.com/admin/apps) and create a test app.
```

> Now you can obtain the token for requests to the datastore by using the @here/olp-sdk-authentification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can get a token for requests to the datastore using the @here/olp-sdk-authentification.
```

const app = new App();
app.run();
```

Compile and run the app:

```shell
tsc && node .
```

After a successful run, the console displays the following message:

```shell
App works!
```

## Log into the data store

> The first thing you need is [account](https://account.here.com).[link](https://google.com)

Reviewer 2: Please fix google

Author: Removed

/**

>  * Example Node.js app for reading versioned layer from datastore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Example Node.js app for reading a versioned layer from the datastore
```

 */
import { UserAuth, requestToken } from "@here/olp-sdk-authentification";

const userAuth = new UserAuth({
    env: "here",
    credentials: {
        accessKeyId: "your-access-key-id",
        accessKeySecret: "your-access-key-secret"
    },
    tokenRequester: requestToken
});

```

## OlpClientSettings

> Now you can initialize DataStore client for `here` environment and, for example, list catalogs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can initialize the `DataStore` client for the `here` environment and, for example, list catalogs.
```

> To do so you need a `OlpClientSettings`. It contains download manager, token provider, and key-value cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, you need the `OlpClientSettings` object. It contains a download manager, token provider, and key-value cache.
```

```typescript
/**

>  * Example Node.js app for reading versioned layer from datastore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Example Node.js app for reading a versioned layer from the datastore.
```

/**
 * Example Node.js app for reading versioned layer from datastore
 */
import { UserAuth, requestToken } from "@here/olp-sdk-authentification";

const userAuth = new UserAuth({
    env: "here",
    credentials: {
        accessKeyId: "your-access-key-id",
        accessKeySecret: "your-access-key-secret"
    },
    tokenRequester: requestToken
});

```

## OlpClientSettings

Now you can initialize DataStore client for `here` environment and, for example, list catalogs.

> To do so you need a `OlpClientSettings`. It contains look up api functionallity to get the base urls to the services.

Reviewer 2: OlpClientSettings does not contain lookup api func... . It contains download manager, token provider, and key-value cache

Author: Fixed

## VersionedLayerClient

> Therefore, when you have settings, you can get catalog clients for different catalogs and read the information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have the `OlpClientSettings` object, you can get catalog clients for different catalogs and read information from catalogs.
```

> You can get more information about Version Layer following the [link](https://developer.here.com/olp/documentation/data-api/data_dev_guide/rest/publishing-data-versioned.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on a versioned layer following, see [the related section](https://developer.here.com/olp/documentation/get-started/dev_guide/shared_content/topics/olp/concepts/layers.html#versioned-layers) in the Get Started guide.
```

To create `VersionedLayerClient`, run:

```typescript

> //  Client for "protobuf-example-berlin-v1" layer from "sensor-data-sensoris-versioned-example" catalog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//  Client for the "protobuf-example-berlin-v1" layer from the "sensor-data-sensoris-versioned-example" catalog.
```

const versionClient = await new VersionedLayerClient(
    HRN.fromString("hrn:here:data:::hrn-example"),
    "example-layer-id",
    settings
);
```

`VersionedLayerClient` has 2 public methods:

1. getData() - to fetch partition data
2. getPartitions() - to fetch partitions metadata

> Method `getData()` expects 2 arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getData()`  method expects the following arguments:
```

> * dataRequest - `DataRequest` instanse. Class that prepare data for the requests to the BlobAPI. `getData` method can fetch partition data by 3 types of parameters you can provide to it. It could be next parameters sorted by priority: `dataHandle`, `partitionId` and `quadKey`. Below you can take a look on the example of creating `DataRequest` instanse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `dataRequest` &ndash;  the `DataRequest` instanse. This class prepares data for the requests to the BlobAPI. The `getData` method can fetch partition data by the following 3 types of parameters (sorted by priority): `dataHandle`, `partitionId`, and `quadKey`. Below, find the example of how to create `DataRequest` instanse.
```

> * abortSignal - a signal object that allows you to communicate with a request (such as a Fetch) and abort it if required via an AbortController object. More details see [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `abortSignal` &ndash; a signal object that allows you to communicate with the request (such as `fetch`) and, if required, abort itusing the `AbortController` object. For more information, see the [`AbortSignal` documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal).
```

```typescript
import { DataRequest } from "@here/olp-sdk-dataservice-read";
// DataRequest usage example
const request = new DataRequest();

> // add `dataHandle` property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Add the `dataHandle` property.
```

request.withDataHandle("TEST24A111D82321A9BA9071A7EF042.042");

> // add `PartitionId` property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Add the `PartitionId` property.
```

request.withPartitionId("123123123");

> // add `QuadKey` property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Add the `QuadKey` property.
```

request.withQuadKey(quadKeyFromMortonCode("123121122"));

> //Also data could be added by chain like so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//Also, data can be added by the following chain:
```

const requestByChain = new DataRequest().withPartitionId("123123123").withQuadKey(quadKeyFromMortonCode("123121122"));
```

> Now let's get data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can get data from the layer.
```

```typescript
const request = new DataRequest().withDataHandle("TESTE24A111D82321A9BA9071A7EF042.042");
const result = await versionClient.getData(request);
```

> Method `getPartitions` expects 2 arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getPartitions` method expects the following arguments:
```

* QuadKeyPartitionsRequest `or` PartitionsRequest`.

> * abortSignal - a signal object that allows you to communicate with a request (such as a Fetch) and abort it if required via an AbortController object. More details see [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `abortSignal` &ndash; a signal object that allows you to communicate with the request (such as `fetch`) and, if required, abort itusing the `AbortController` object. For more information, see the [`AbortSignal` documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AbortSignal).
```

> To fetch partitions metadata from Query API by `QuadKey` use `QuadKeyPartitionsRequest`. It expects quadKey, depth (from 0 to 4) and version (optional).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fetch partitions metadata from Query API by `QuadKey`, use `QuadKeyPartitionsRequest`. It expects a quadkey, depth (from 0 to 4), and version (optional).
```

```typescript
import { QuadKeyPartitionsRequest } from "@here/olp-sdk-dataservice-read";
// QuadKeyPartitionsRequest usage example
const request = new QuadKeyPartitionsRequest()
                    .withQuadKey(quadKeyFromMortonCode("75717"))
                    .withDepth(3) // default value is 0
                    .withVersion(42); // optional
const result = await versionClient.getPartitions(request);
```

> To fetch partitions metadata from MetadataAPI use `PartitionsRequest`. It expects version parameter (optional). If you skip version and pass empty PartitionsRequest instanse, than the last layer verion will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fetch partitions metadata from the MetadataAPI, use `PartitionsRequest`. It expects version parameter (optional). If you skip version and pass an empty `PartitionsRequest` instanse, the last layer version will be used.
```

## VersionedLayerClient

Therefore, when you have settings, you can get catalog clients for different catalogs and read the information.
You can get more information about Version Layer following the [link](https://developer.here.com/olp/documentation/data-api/data_dev_guide/rest/publishing-data-versioned.html).
To create `VersionedLayerClient`, run:

```typescript
//  Client for "protobuf-example-berlin-v1" layer from "sensor-data-sensoris-versioned-example" catalog
const versionClient = await new VersionedLayerClient(

>     HRN.fromString("hrn:here:data:::sensor-data-sensoris-versioned-example"),

Reviewer 2: please, don't use the real hrn, datahandles, etc ..

Author: Removed
